#summary Geting Started

This page provides instructions for installing JNLua and launching the JNLua console in order to get started with using JNLua.

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=Installing JNLua=

JNLua can be [http://code.google.com/p/jnlua/downloads/list downloaded] from its project web site. The download directory contains three types of assemblies:
 
  * `bin`: these contain the JNLua Java library as a JAR file 
  * `native`: these contain pre-built versions of the JNLua native library and the JNLua Java module for the Win32 platform (64-bit and 32-bit)
  * `src`: these contain the JNLua source code 

As an alternative, you [http://code.google.com/p/jnlua/source/checkout checkout] JNLua from its repository. Tags are provided for each release.

==Installing the JNLua Java Library==

The JNLua Java library is provided by a file named `jnlua-{version}.jar`. This file can be obtained by downloading a `bin` assembly.

[http://maven.apache.org/ Apache Maven] is required to build the JNLua Java library manually. Once the JNLua native library and the Lua library are installed on your system (see below), type the following commands:

{{{
mvn clean
mvn javadoc:jar
mvn package
}}} 

==Installing the JNLua Native Library==

The JNLua proejct provides pre-built versions of the JNLua native library for the Win32 platform (64-bit and 32-bit). These files can be obtained by downloading a `native` assembly.

Please see [BuildingTheNativeLibrary Building the Native Library] for information on how to build the JNLua native library on other platforms, or do a different build for Win32.
 
===Installation Directory===

The JNLua native library must be placed in a location where is is found by the Java Virtual machine. Typical locations include:
 
  * *Win32*: `C:\Windows\System32`
  * *Linux*: `/usr/lib`
  * *MacOSX*: `/Library/Java/Extensions`

See your JVM documentation for a list of these locations on your platform. As as alternative, you can ensure that the location where you have installed the JNLua native library is on your `java.library.path`. 

==Installing the Lua Library==

The JNLua native library requires Lua as a shared library. Depending on your environment, you can install the shared Lua library via a package manager, download it from the [http://luabinaries.sourceforge.net/ LuaBinaries] project, or compile the [http://www.lua.org/download.html Lua source code] into a shared library yourself.
 
===Lua Version===

JNLua 0.9 requires Lua 5.1.

JNLua 1.0 requires Lua 5.2.

===Installation Directory===

The Lua library must be placed in a location where is is found when the Java Virtual Machine loads the JNLua native library. Typical locations inlcude:
 
  * *Win32*: `C:\Windows\System32`
  * *Linux*: `/usr/lib` 
  * *MacOSX*: `/usr/lib`

=Launching the JNLua Console=

To launch the JNLua console, type the following in the directory where `jnlua-{version}.jar` is installed:
 
{{{
java -classpath jnlua-{version}.jar com.naef.jnlua.console.LuaConsole 
}}}

To exit the console, terminate the input. On Windows, this is accomplished by typing *F6* followed by *Enter*. On Linux, type *Ctrl+D*.